## The First Three Years - 1973-1976

Well, I don't remember much that happened that year. I was born April 30, a Monday, I think just before 6:00AM, at Petaluma Valley Hospital in Sonoma. This makes me a Taurus born in the lunar year of the Ox, so a double-bull. Every 12 years is the lunar year of the Ox, when I consider myself a tripple-bull.

April 30 is the anniversary of the date that Hitler supposedly shot himself. It is also Vietnam Reunification Day, Victory Day, or Liberation Day, when the "Communist" north captured Saigon in the south, technically ending the American conflict in Southeast Asia. I put "Communist" in sarcasm quotes because Communism has never actually existed, being that it is against the greed and self-interest prevalent in a significant percentage of humans' nature.

By this time, my parents had already entered a cult, and the original leader of the cult, Alex Horn, had already been ejected, potentially for sexual misbehavior. I found some eviodence on the Internet that this involved young boys, but I had always heard that it involved female members of the cult, and that one male member punched him out when he told members to begin digging their own graves. Alex has his own Wikipedia page:

- [Alex Horn](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Alex_Horn)

//TODO: find the name of the original cult

Alex's former wife, Anne Haas, became the leader of the cult, sometimes referred to as the Sonoma Mountain Cult due to her ownership of a property there. The adults called it something like Anne Haas's group of friends, or at least I remember seeing something like this on a printed list of the members with their contact information. Sometimes it was just called the group, and the members were called groupers, though some of the adults objected to this term.

The cult supposedly focussed on principles of George Gurdjieff, which interested my father, although he later said that he felt more aligned with Zen Buddhism. Gurdjieff also has a Wikipedia page:

- [George Gurdjieff](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/George_Gurdjieff)

This book provides an introduction to his theories, which I believe have some value, especially regarding observing ones self, which I see as a form of presence or mindfulness:

- [In Search of the Miraculous](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/In_Search_of_the_Miraculous])

The cult supposedly espoused aspects of Hindu and Buddhist philosophy, but thinking back, I don't remember much of this. What I mostly remember is Anne's personal ego. 

I think this was around the time that my father started his landscaping business, Gardens West. Apparently, he didn't realize that this company name included his last name until he had answered the phone a few times, "Jay West at Gardens West." At this time, he was apparently also selling life insurance.

My younger brother Adrian arrived in August of 1975. 

I have only one very vague memories from this period of my life, and I'm not even certain that it's a real memory. I think I can see my mother getting dressed, wearing dark stockings. In my mind, there is nothing sexual about this memory, so I'm not sure why it stands out. This may have been the night of the tragedy.

It's possible that I was in a grouper daycare named Pooh's Corner or something else related two Whinnie the Pooh, of which cult leader Anne, who came from England and maintained somewhat of a pretentions accent, was a fan. Later, I sympathized with Eeyore (a stuffed donkey named after the sound that donkeys make) but never cared much for the stories. I did like the characters of Piglet, Tigger, and Rabbit in the classic animations.

I am not sure exactly when - I think 1976 but possibly 1977 - my parents placed me in the Gingerbread House Daycare run by Barbara, a grouper mother of Andy, who would turn out to be one of my best friends. She ran the daycare out of her home, and I remember their yellow dog Spot would crap all over their yard, which stunk. 

I don't remember him, but apparently my brother Tim had a beagle named Beatle around this time.

