## The First Pivotal Year - 1977

At the end of April in 1977, I turned four years old. I think that one of my first memories is of my birthday party. My mom, who I think never had to work for money, did crafts. She apparently put some work into either a "Cowboys and Indians" or pure Native American theme for this party. 

I think that my next memory is either the night of the accident in October or a subsequent date, possibly the day that my mother died. My parents had gone to a party, so I assume at least my dad had had too much to drink. My mom was giving the babysitter a ride home when a drunk driver in a van with its lights off T-bioned her tiny economy car. I heard that they found her in a field and the babysitter had a broken leg.

The memory is of my dad telling us three boys. In my mind's picture, he's sitting or nealing near us or on the bottom bunk of a bunk bed with us. Terry built that bed, which stayed in my family for about another decade. Terry was a business partner in carpentry with Carl, who was Andy's dad.

I don't remember any words, just my father's grimness. Supposedly, Adrian apparently didn't understand or didn't believe it and started laughing. 

Another story from this period is that the adults asked Tim if he wanted us to go see her in the hospital. This seems like a ridiculous responsibility to put on a child only six years in age. Tim declined, which I believe was probably the right decision. He's always felt guilty about this, but I guess I would rather remember my mother as a perfect angel than basically a mutilated corpse on a hospital bed.

She lived for about nine days, but there was never any chance of survival, which probably wouldn't have been for the best anyway. She died in a helicopter on the way to have her eyes donated to another medical patient.

I remember we wrote notes to mom, tied them to baloons, and release the baloons. I have no idea what I wrote, but I was certain that it would not reach mom. I grew up pretty quickly from this point, realizing that I had to put on appearances for other people, and especially to look strong for my father, who was obviously overhelmed with three children. Adrian was somewhat difficult at this age, and Tim has always been difficult.

I don't remember the exact order of events, but around this time, I was in a Monetssori school, which I absolutely loved. I may have been enrolled before the accident, or I may have been enrolled because Anne didn't think I should think too much about what had happened. I was only in this program for a couple of few weeks at most. Supposedly, Anne also thought that it would be best for me to be near her, so my dad moved me to the kindergarden at the grouper school named Great Oak. Anne was the teacher. So I entered kindergarden a year early, the youngest child in the class, a late entry, and the only child without a mother.

Relatively few of the children in the group were much older than me. Those older kids included all of Anne's five children. I think Alex was the father of all five. Anne later "adopted" children from various familiies in the group.

Mine was the largest class in the group, consisting of 26 students. It seemed like there were more birthdays in May than any other month, which always makes me wonder if there had been some kind of group event nine months before May of 1972. I think that by the time Great Oak closed seventh and eight grades, which was after my seventh grade, we were down to 15 students or less, and the school had separated the boys and from the girls. The school honestly closed because the studens were too rebelious.

I don't remember much of kindergarden. I remember a really scary doberman that was chained up near the classroom at the property on Sonoma Mountain. I remember Anne gave me something like a porcelain gardenia on a rock, as this had been my mother's favorite flower. I felt bad when the petals eventually broke and I had to throw it away, but who gives a child something so delicate? I remember that a kid named Toby with very thick glasses bit me for no apparent reason. He came from a somewhat troubled home and ended up being the victim of everyone in my grade.

The cult supposedly espoused aspects of Hindu and Buddhist philosophy, but thinking back, I don't remember much of this. What I mostly remember is Anne's personal ego. I honestly don't remember any of it, but it seems like she was always talking about having more awareness, intelligence, or other forms of superiority over all others.

I should mention that the children had to call her Auntie Anne. In fact, we had to call all of the adults Uncle or Aunt or Auntie. One could interpret this as a show of respect for adults, in which there could be some value. One could also interpret it as a sort of class hierarchy, where authority figures had dominion over children, even if their authority was invalid. I would have preferred to call them Mr. or Ms. or Mrs. Last Name.

Anne's lectures were certainly a form of punishment. They could last for hours. I think that generally we could sit, but I beleve that sometimes we could stand. They were so incredibly boring that we did things like eat ants off of the nearby trees. I remember that we weren't allowed to play what Tony (Anne's new husband) called "shitsticks", which was anything that involved touching the grass with our hands.

To my knowledge there weren't many forms of punishment other than lecutre. I don't remember what Toby did once, but I think Anne made him stand on his stool in front of the entire class, and he may have had to pull down his pants for some reason, in some kind of attempt to mortify him in front of the class. Memories and stories from this period are rather hazy, but Toby was always a victim of abuse from at least his older brother (who I heard recently died) and his classmates. Later there were a few reports of physical abuse by teachers, because certain children really did rebel and get out of control. I don't think there were any consequences for the teachers. I remember hearing about one kid in a grade below mine getting punched by a teacher that had been a professional boxer. I think it was the same teacher that used a belt on a kid named David in my seventh grade, who I think was really a problem child.

At this time in the mid-1970s, I think it was still pretty normal for basically any adult to have the authority to discipline any child, whether in their family or a stranger. Corporal punishment by at least parents was also still permissible. Most children did not have to refer to most adults using any form of honorary, even Mr. or Mrs. Children generally just avoided referring to adults by name.

In school, we did celebrate multicutluralism and all faiths. We would have "feast days" where the students would dress up in costumes representing different cultures or religions and we would have meals based on regional and traditional cuisines. While every family in the group was white, I remember a single woman that had adopted a Korean boy. One family had a Korean mother, whose adoptive father Bob had adopted her after the American war in Korea. Bob was responsible for bringing my parents into the cult. He had met my parents after architecting the first house that they bought in Balinas and another house that we lived in after my dad remarried. 

Anyway, I grew up in what I would call an all-white community being taught not to have any prejudices or biases against anyone of any faith or color, and I appreciate that. To my knowledge, I never witnessed any racism, but then again I never really experienced any races other than white except for that one half-Korean kid in my class. We were often told that the world outside the cult was cruel and dangerous, but I didn't understand this until much later.

At the same time, my parents took me to Sunday school at an Episcopalian church, which was also the location of my mother's funeral. I remember something like witch hats standing on the coffin, and this was also the date of my first memory of her mother. Supposedly, he had come brought something like a recreational vehicle to live at my parents' property before she died, but I have no memory of this. What I remember is him driving me to the funerl in a small car that was in very bad shape.






//TODO: Toby

I have a vague memory of going to court, but I don't remember if I testified. I think my dad won a civil suit, and I seem to remember that my family received about $200,000, which would have been quite a bit of money at the time. It's possible that we didn't receive anything, and other than things like housing, food, and private schooling, I never received anything directly from this. My dad made bad investments and spent almost everything before he eventually passed away.

I think we got rid of Beatle. I don't know when, but some time later, we got a mut that looked like it was mostly Collie from some children that had puppies in a cardboard box in front of a grocery store. We named him Duncan.

Beatrix Potter
Christmas Plays
Toby on the Stool