

//TODO: carpool


### 1978 - First Grade

In 1978, I turned five years old and made the transition from kindergaden to first grade. Our classroom was on grouper Pete's property, I think in Cotati or Petaluma. I remember the water being really rusty, smelling and tasting horrible and staining porcelain. My teather was grouper Tarney, who was the father of Sam, who was a boy in Tim's grade (one year ahead of me). I don't remember much about this year, other than that we watched The Red Baloon movie in what I think was a barn near the house in which we had the classroom. I think she was a good teacher for that grade.

### 1979 - Second Grade

In 1979, I turned six years old and made the transition from first to second grade. School was at grouper Shiah's house, which was on a large property at the top of a hill in Petaluma. One of the greatest things about this property was a huge oak tree that we would climb constantly. The trunk seemed gigantic and was difficult to scale, but that was the only hard part. One thick vertical branch was actually smooth on top, with the bark removed from countless children shimmying up and down. One branch reached a shed, which was a common way down rather than jumping or going back to the trunk. Another branch reached a power line, which the bravest kids would travel hand over hand. I believe there was also a rope swing. Obviously, there were rarely any adults watching us at this time.

Our teacher that year was a grouper named Armond, who was always one of my favorite groupers. I don't know much about his history, but all of his children were older than me, the youngest being Joe in my brother Tim's class. His oldest, a girl named Natasha, had babysat for my family at some point. I later found audio tapes of Motzart's Magit Flute with her hanrdwiting on the labels, which had apparently been a gift to my father, who had taken us children to a performance of that work, I think in San Francisco. His middle child was Dan.

What I liked about Arnold was that he was smart and scientific. He taught us our multiplication tables up to 12x12. I was the first student to memorize them, likely only minutes before Bry, who honestly was always much smarter than me. 

I remember that we watched a mobile slaughter company bring a trailer to kill and process a pig on the property that year.

I also remember that we tried to make an adobe fort, but I don't think we ever completed it, likely because it was too much work and unlikely to be safe.

## 1980 - 1986: The Judy Years

### 1980 - Third Grade

In 1980, I turned seven years old and made the transition from second to third grade.

My third grade teeacher was a man named Carl. who was Andy's dad, and who was also one of my godfathers. Carl had been in the Vietname war, I think in the army. If I remember correctly, he had a very blurred small tatoo of something like demon with a parachute on one of his arms. The quality of this tatoo at his age is probably one of the reasons that I've never had a tatoo.

I really liked Carl. He was a carpenter that worked with Terry, who had made my bunk bed. At some point during the year, I think he took the entire class to his shop to make things from wood, likely as gifts for Father's Day. At this point, my father was a landscape architec, which meant that he spent a significant amount of his time drafting plans for landscapes. I remember he had some electric razors that looked like the small guns in the original Star Trek. I made a large block of wood with slots fpr triangls and tubes for pencils and pens. The wood had a flaw that required some wood putty, which always bothered me a little. He seemed to like it and kept it on his desk for years. Though I wanted it back, I never found it after his death. I assume that he broke or discarded it at some time, maybe when he stopped drafting plans frequently.

Our classroom was at the Sonoma Mountain property. Our playground had a swingset, but if I remember correctly, we shared it with some pigs, which really can be filthy animals. I remember we once covered one of the pigs with mud, likely without good intentions. Anne told us that we had done a favor for the pig by helping it to cool down. I remember running a "store" with Anne, the girl with whom I had had some sexual experiences in the bushes in kindergarden. We sold pig terds tied with yarn that I believe I extracted from the pom pom at the top of one of my winter hats. I don't think anyone ever bot a pom pom.

One day the class tormented Toby so badly that he climbed up a play structure in a rage yelling, "I'm going to kill you! I'm going to kill you!". I remember another incident where he, possibly along with other boys that my even have included me, used his glasses to burn worms in the sun on a windowsill in the classroom. I remember that Carl thought that this was extremely cruel, but beyond talking, I don't remember the punishment.

I don't remember what the play was about, but I think this was the year that I played a giant, with Andy on my back. There was some kind of fighting scene and we accidentally fell down. Somehow I was strong enough to stand back up, which seemed like a miraculous feat at the time.

This was also the school year when my father married Judy. I remember specifically because we had to switch from the school carpool that went to Sonoma to the carpool that went to Petaluma. This move was part of the reason that my friendships with Sonoma friends diminished, although I never really developed friendships with the Petaluma people.

Star Wars was a big deal for me throughout my childhood. The Empire Strikes Back came out in 1980. At this point in my life, this is really the only Star Wars movie that is still watchable. I remember that I told a long series of lies, I think primarily to a kid named Jimmy, about how there was a store in Sonoma that sold basically every Star Wars product that ever existed. Jimmy's dad took him to the store, and Jimmy called me out for being a liar. The truth was that the store was some kind of mini market that probably sold star wars cards but nothing else.

I think that this was also the time that the Star Wars cards collection that my brothers and I had built disappeared. I think the story was that our nanny Kim threw discarded it, but I think she actually stole it when she realized that her job would be ending.

My dad had been dating a woman named Tracey. I remember being really upset when Tracey gave me Playmobil for my birthday. Anyone that knew anything about me would know that I liked Lego, and Playmobil was for little kids.

Tracy had a dog that was half-wolf. Somehow, Tim ended up with one of her puppies. After my dad broke up with Tracey, remember her coming to the house one night acting almost like a heroin addict or something, very distraught. Apparently, Anne had told my father to marry Judy, and so he had broken up with Tracey.

I think that at first I was happy that I would have a mother again. We boys were supposed to call her Mommy Judy as part of the transition. I don't remember calling her that, but I think I did call her mom for a while, but in the end just called her Judy (maybe not to her face). 

Judy had three children. Sierra was in my grade. I think her older brother Ulysses was too old to have every gone to Great Oak and another daughter Kirsten was even older. 

Ulysses had some issues. Sierra told me that on at least one occasion he grabbed her by the feet and forced his foot into her crotch in an effort to create pain. He gave my brothers and I pocket knives. He had a blue bike that was like a BMX. I loved that bike and eventually inherited it to replace the Schwin I had received from my grandmother at age five or six.

My family moved from Sonoma to a really nice house at 999 Jacobsen Lane in Petaluma architected by the Bob that had introduced my real parents to the group. At the time, this was a 33-acre property mostly used as a hayfarm (I think the farmer paid us to use the land). It was a nice area to grow up. We used to build forts out of the haybales, but this probably upset the farmer. Looking back and thinking about how the haybales could have fallen on us, it was also rather dangerous.

In the years that the fields were fallow, we would make forts in the weeds, which were taller than I was. One year, Tim got sprayed by a skunk. I remember that when he stepped on it, he thought it was a turtle. I saw some scary snakes on this property. There was also a creek with a little swimming hole. In many ways, it was an idilic place to grow up, at least from my perspective. One problem was that it was in Penngrove (close enough to Petaluma and small enough to be considered Petaluma by most people). The nearest store was about 1.5 miles away from our house, and Penngrove itself wasn't much of a town. At the time, Petaluma wasn't much either, but at least there were other kids around. The only kids near us were older, and they were really hicks. We never spent any time together except for one time that they shot an air rifle to show off. I remember one of them saying in a really country voice afterwards, "Satisfied?". I think Andy was at my house that day.

Sierra lived with us and but I think visited her father every second weekend. Judy required that the children do all sorts of chores such as weeding, sweeping the decks, chopping kindling, hauling firewood, and gardening. Somehow, Sierra was often responsible for "watching the phone" while we boys seemed to do most of this work.

While we still lived in Sonoma, I received two chickens from my school, a Rode Island Red and one of the black and white checkered breed. I named them Kirsten and Scott Joplin. I can't remember which was which. Tim's dog killed one of them, but I don't remember which one. I don't remember what happened to the other, but they didn't last long. What kind of school thinks that suburban children can care for chickens effectively?

I could be off by some years, but I seem to remember this being the year that Tony castrated lambs in front of the children.

// Judy was an alcoholic. At some point she shot Tim's dog, which was often causing problems with the neighbors.

//TODO: pinto
//TODO: mercedes

//TODO: Judy shoots the dog


//TODO: Jacobsen
//TODO: chores, alcoholism
//todo; then didn't like her, and found out she was trying to adopt us