## 1986 - 1990 - High School

// friends stealing cars
// pulled over

I started driving illegally before I got my driving permit, and I never put in many hours of practice with my dad. I failed my driving test the first time for some minor infraction (not looking over my shoulder when merging into a turn lane), but passed the second time. I inherited a white 1980 Toyota longbed truck from my dad's landsaping company. It had basically been used as a dumpster for years, so it looked and smelled terrible, but I loved it. I had three small accidents in the first year but nobody ever reported any of them.





//TODO: graduation sleep drive
//TODO: graduation party


In 1990, the summer after high school, I worked sevem day a week: five at my father's landscaping company and two at a gas station, which was the first job I ever really found by myself. By this time, I had moved from landscape maintenance (the easy part) to landscape construction (the hard part, including demolition of previous landscapes). I remember injusring my wrist by trying to move a large boulder. The doctor suggested that I had arthritis. I remember another project where we had to paint the mortar around the rock patio surrounding a swimming pool with lamplac because the owner had requested black mortar and my dad had somehow made an error.

My brother worked at a gas station accross the street. I remember his gas station was promoting some movie that summer, possibly Top Gun or some car movie.

My gas station was not very busy. I was seventeen years old, but I generally worked alone. At some point, my boss (Pete) introduced me to Buffalo hot wings from Henny Penny's restaurant down the street. I found these to be amazing. I also found a porno mag at work, which I have to admit that I used at least once. One time, Pete told me that someone had done something suspicious in the bathroom and asked me to check. In the trash can, I found ziplock bags containing dead pheasants. One of my coworkers had a Toyota Supra that was basically the coolest car I'd even seen. He was a bit older than me and we never had much of a relationship. One time, a guy came in and told me that he knew Pete and got me to cash a $150 check for him, which turned out to be fraud. Surprisingly, Pete wasn't very angry about that, and I didn't lose the job. Another time, a couple came in wondering why their brand new car was leaking fluids. I had to explain that it was condensation from the air conditioner.That was relatively rare technology in 1990, I guess.

I seem to remember spending my spare time mostly smoking bonghits, specifically using shake from weeed that Ben had grown. Other than oxygen deprivation, I don't think this caused any high. One night I got pulled over. The cop found the bong and made me break it. He didn't find the pipe and weed that were under the dashmat. I got a ticket for something like minor transporting alcohol. I don't remember if I went to court but I assume that I had to pay a fine. My license may have been revoked, but it didn't really matter because I didn't take my truck to college.