## 1990 - 1996 : [The First] College Years

### 1990

In 1990, I graduated from high school. Actually, technically, I didn't graduate high school because I was deficient in Physical Education credits. Most boys in my school participated in sports, especially Football and Baseball. Not only do I particularly dislike those two sports, but I've always been more interested in indidiual activities than team activities, and I've never been physically competitive. Not only that, but my parents really didn't support us children requiring any costs (such as uniforms and gear) or transportation. I had learned this when Tim,.who was a year ahead of me in the same high school, had tried to participate in Football.

I think the school had warned me about my PE deficiency before graduation, so I signed up for golf. I didn't have clubs, but I played with my friend Matt, who had left-handed clubs. There wasn't any instructor; we were supposed to just go out and play. I did that a few times before just giving up.

The school did give me a diploma, but made me promise to take some kind of physical activity course at Santa Rosa Junior College over the summer. I signed up for something that sounded like it had minimal intensity, which turned out to be some kind of stretching program for geriatrics, so I dropped out of that as well. Luckily, the school never followed up, but it probably wouldn't have mattered - I had already been accepted to college and nobody has ever asked to see my high school records.

I entered an environmental engineering program in Humboldt State University in northern California. I chose this school for a few reasons: it was easy to get into, it was far awy from my parents, and it was in the Emerald Triangle, which is an area known for having very good marijuana. This last part was really true. I had smoked some decent weed in Sonoma County, but the strains that I found in Humboldt were absolutely amazing, some coming up from Mendocino and some coming down from Alaska. 

The triangle includes Humboldt, Mendocino, and Trinity counties in California, of which Humboldt weed was the best. There was weed that tasted like blackberries and weed that tasted like sunshine.
 
By the time I got to college, I had stopped drinking, likely because I really didn't have time while working every day over the preceding summer. I actually found it kind of revolting to watch other teenagers drinking. They were often making asses of themselves at parties and elsewhere.

The first year, I lived in the dormitories, and I didn't need a vehicle. I had a mountain bike, but it broke and I never got it fixed, and then it got stolen and probably thrown off a bridge when the thief realized that fixing the back brakes was probably impossible because the frame had broken.

I think that due to another high school deficiency, I had to take acting or speech in my first year, and I chose acting. In general, I don't like people looking at me, let alone being the center of attention. That winter, my class performed a play, along with a number of other classes doing various types of performances. The night of the play was when I first met Shannon. She seemed to be one of those girls that was just infatuated with me from the moment we met. I remember that I offered her a Hershey's Kiss, but that's as far as it went.

Humboldt had long winter breaks, so I basically forgot about Shannon until maybe February. She sat down next to me in the J (the cafeteria) and basically offered to come to my room for sex. At this point, I was living in a "single", which meant that I didn't have a roommate. My friend Dave, who lived on my floor, had given me a device that he had made that powered three different electrical outlets variably based on an audio input signal. I had hooked this up to Christmas lights and my room was like a disco. I remember people walking by my window and requesting tunes. Shannon came over and grinded on me until I came in my pants.

I sold my single to a guy that didn't really fit in at the dorms. He was really into road biking, where most people at HSU that rode bikes preferred moutnain biking. I remember opening a curtain in the common shower area once and finding him shaving his legs. Apparently, this improves performance, but it sure seemed gay to me at the time.

I moved in with Dave, which was good and bad. Dave was from Hollywood, I think from a relatively wealthy family, which is a very different culture than Humboldt. He smoked about as much weed as I did, and I don't remember him ever drinking alcohol. He was known for having a cocaine habit though.

Dave was quite a character. In fact, he was a descendant of a famous vaudevillian comedian, actor, and singer, and relevant traits seemed to run in his family. Years later, he was imprisoned for five years for some kind of crime that I believe involved trafficking fentanyl. He contacted me when he got out, when I was living in Portland, and came to my house for a visit. 

I enjoyed classes in philosophy and logic, but as soon as I saw my first physics book, I knew that I needed to change majors. I bounced around a bit, including an attempt at journalism, but this seemed to take the fun out of writing.

Eventually I ended up in Child Development with a focus on Psychology. I thought that I would end up administering a daycare, but later realized that men aren't really accepted in that industry anymore. There was one other guy in the Child Development program and he ended up dropping. Most of the women were pretty far from appealing, but to be honest, that's true of most women in Humboldt.

My psychology focus was pathology, and I think I was mostly there to try to understand what had gone wrong in my own personal development. I've never used my psychology training professionally, but it was enlightening and I think very useful. In fact, I think that everyone should study psychology, especially topics like defense mechanisms and to try to understand human motivations. Currently, politicians and technology companies are using their knowledge of psychology against the human race. It's impossible to fight this, but awareness can be reduce its impact on individuals.

The small school size worked to my advantage. //TODO: Blaisdell



 For at least the first two years, I took mostly general education classes 

