## 2015

//TODO: Ukraine

In 2015, Sitecore took external investment and went through a restructuring. I moved from engineering to marketing, where I really didn't belong. I was responsible for architecture of Sitecore's web properties including its marketing site. My first project was a documentation site. I did something that I thought was really cool technologically - using WebDAV fields in Sitecore to facilitate editing documentation in Word, and then some .NET code to convert the word documents to HTML, including image extraction. Mark, the guy that ran the documentation team, wanted to use FrameMaker or something instead, which I thought was ridiculos because the content is not reusable and formatting doesn't/shoudn't really matter that much to a technical audience. I believe that the documentation solution that I helped to develop went into production, but I don't think it lasted long there.

Next, I was supposed to re-architect the marketing site. Michael, the CEO of Sitecore, wanted to use Sitecore Experience Accelerator (SXA), which was some technology that Sitecore had acquired, previously named Sitecore Zen Garden. I didn't like SXA - I thought it was a tool for agencies to develop small sites. I wanted to use BrainJocks score, which I considered to be better technology from BrainJocks. Some time previously, BrainJocks had actually sent Brian, the company's founder, and Pavel, the main technologist behind SCORE, to Portland so that they could come to my house and teach me SCORE. At the time, I considered these guys to be my friends, and we kept in touch for some years afterwards, but long-distance friendships often fade.

At this point, I feel like I was barely working, but the work that I did was pretty brutal. I had to wake up around 4:30 every day to work with the teams in Ukraine and Denmark, and I wasn't happy with the type of responsibilities I had. I didn't get to code or write documentation or blog or do anything that I was good at; I got to sit on calls and write emails and make suggestions that generally wouldn't be followed.

Anyway, Michael and I disagreed about the foundational technology for the marketing site. He was CEO and so I didn't really have a choice. I highly doubt that the marketing site uses SXA today, but it probably wouldn't use SCORE either. By the end of 2015, it was pretty clear that I was done at Sitecore. The Chief Marketing Officer at Sitecore, who was now my boss's boss (meaning I had been moved down a wrung in the company), eventually asked Bjarne, my business partner of 12 years, who basically gave me a piece of Sitecore USA when he and Eric founded it, why marketing was paying such an outrageous salary. Early in 2016, Bjarne suggested that we have a call. Since he and hadn't really worked together in years, and Bjarne doesn't waste time, I basically knew what this call would be about. I said I had already been thinking about bringing in my laptop; Bjarne told me to keep it, gave me what was basically a token parting bonus, and that was the end of it. I had no hard feelings towards Bjarne, but I did have some resentment about how Sitecore had treated me towards the end. Anyway, working there was mostly a good experience, and certainly a major factor in my career and financial success. I have nothing to complain about.