## 2016-2018: Singapore



//TODO: Sitecore
//TODO: New York
//TODO: Singapore


Somehow, Adam eventually offered me a role as Senior Vice President for Experience Platforms working in Singapore. 


// massage


At the end of 2016, my boys, their mother, and I relocated to Singapore. Between us, we managed to transport everything we needed in 13 pieces of luggage. 

We started out in a short-term rental at D’Leedon, which is near the Farrer Road MRT (metro) station, which I don't think is very close to much of interest anything . This facility has great pools, lots of children, and plenty of smooth concrete for riding unpowered things with wheels. We immediately acquired two-wheeled Razor scooters for the boys. There is also a decent hawker's market (food stalls) nearby, with a playground.

About a month later, we rented a three-bedroom condo in Orchard at The Patterson at 63 Patterson road. At the time, the International School of Singapore was just around the corner from this facilty, which also had a swimming pool and a tennis court. John entered a soccer program on weekends and both boys took tennis lessons from an instructor that I believe was Indian.

John started to take fencing lessons but the other boys were so rude that, after Susan moved out at the end of the year, I complained to the instructor and stopped taking him to class. Well, that might also have been partly because he never wanted to go, and it was boring for Ben and me to sit through his lessons, but honestly, the other boys were so cruel that I saw John close to tears, which I have only seen when his mother made him basically catatonic from emotional abuse or later when his girlfriend broke up with him.

In some ways, working in Singapore was great, partly because I didn't follow the standards of dressing up or working long hours. I mainly wore T-shirts, shorts, and flip-flops to work, which was somehow accepted due to my status. I was earning a decent salary in US dollars working for the POSSIBLE advertising company, which was one of the WPP agencies at the time.

My office was on the 13th floor at Harbourfront Centre, which is right on the coast overlooking Sentosa Island (which I understand was man-made) and above the ferry terminal. There were windows near three sides of my desk, although Sentosa was behind me. In the morning, I could see the sunrise to my right over a shipping port, and in the evening I could see the sunset to my left, with the Singapore Cable Car system ferrying passengers through the air to and from the island. Outside the office, there was also a large patio that included a helipad. This was a great area for social activities, which we had weekly, though sometimes indoors due to the heat or rain. 

My direct manager, Mike, was pleasant, interesting, and entertaining. He and his wife Tina invited us to their appartment complex, where the boys enjoyed the larger pool. Mike and I discussed his ADHD and its treatment. I was concerned that John and I both had relevent. He thought that the meds had really helped him as a teenager. After we got back to the USA, a counselor offered that we could get an ADHD diagnosis for John and start experimenting with the the drugs, but I never supported this and it never happened. Except in very serious cases, I think it's generally better to just let people be themselves, and I think the problem was really that his mother and I weren't happy with some aspects of who he was. Our parenting was terrible, and certainly part of his development of what I would classify as Oppositional Defiant Disorder (ODD), possibly underpinned by varying levels of ADHD, depending on activity and environment. Basically, I think some boys just have too much energy and need to be outdoors and with men as role models, not cramped in classrooms led primarily by female teachers. 

In other ways, this job was a nightmare. I was finally responsible for a Sitecore project, and the customer (Resorts World Sentosa, which has hotels and entertainment facilities on Sentosa island)  been drastically oversold, both on what the software could provide and what the agency could do with it. The project was already underwater, meaning that the agency had lost money, and we still had to deliver. Since POSSIBLE didn't have the technical skills, it subcontracted the technical work to an outfit in Poland. I enjoyed going out to meals and for drinks with the Polish guys, although they eventually parted ways with some negativity. If I ever get to Poland, I'll look try to lool up least Jacob and Thomas.

I also worked directly with a couple of Philipino guys, Rhameel and Marvin. I think they had both been Sitecore MVPs, but I think only Marvin deserved the title. Rhameel was a smoker, which bothered me. During the project, he seemed to never be working, always out of the office. While I was there, he quit and went to work for Sitecore, which could explain those absences. Marvin also eventually worked for Sitecore.

In addition to the facilities, I really respected the culture that Paul had created for POSSIBLE Singapore. Unfortunately, I think the RWS project killed POSSIBLE financially. Paul was not responsible for that sale; I think a salesperson named Joe had taken a significant commission and disappeared. For Lunar New Year, the office had lion dancers visit, and I was able to bring my boys for that event. I think they were 6 and 8 years old at the time, so this was pretty exciting for them, and also a good experience for me and Susan.

//TODO: DUI

//Irene

Towards the end of 2017, it was clear that POSSIBLE was going to fold. The company gave up the facility at Harbourfront and its people into another agency with a headquarters at a different location that was much less interesting for me. By this time I had probably already started working part-time mostly from the condo.

I wanted to stay in Singapore, but Susan wanted to go back to Kaiser, which would re-instate her at the same level of seniority, salary, and benefits if she returned within two years. I think she left Singapore in November, but I stayed with the boys for about eight more months.

While we were living in Singapore, we visited many places. After Susan left, she would come back for approximately a week every month and we would go on vacations together or she would take the boys. I don't remember exact details, but we went to at least Thailand, Bali, Australia, New Zealand. After Susan left, we went to at least Thailand, New Zealand, and Sri Lanka.

//TODO: Singapore in general
//TODO: scooters to school
//TODO: Drums and school events
//TODO: Bhutan temple, 
//TODO: Kham
//TODO: Divorce
//TODO: Lao
//TODO: Belle
//TODO: dragon lady