## 2020-2022

### Covid Comes

At the beginning of 2020, I was in Laos. I went to Chiang Mai to see Belle in relation to some condos in which she was to help me invest. While there, the airline informed me that my flight through Korea had been cancelled due to Covid. When I tried to rebook, they told me that airlines were not booking flights to the USA anymore. Somehow I was eventually able to book a flight through Manilla, which (to my knowledge) was the only time that I have ever landed in the Philippines.

In Asia, especially in airports, people often wear masks, and Covid increased their use. I was really shocked when I landed in the USA and virtually nobody had a mask. I knew that Covid was going to be bad in the USA, but I actually didn't care, as I have always though that the world has too many people, especially sick old people.

### Divorce Proceeds

I don't remember exactly when she left, but I think that Susan was still living at my house at this time. Either in 2020 or 2021 I rented a furnished studio where I slept, but returned to my house daily to see the boys and to work. My landlord was great - she had helped numerous people through various psychological issue including divorce.

I remember going into Ben's room one day and being very firm with Susan that it was time for her to leave.

I remember another incident, whether before or after that, when I entered my house in the morning. My older son John was unusually still and immediately wanted to have a conversation with me, both of which are incredibly unusual. Clearly needing privacy, we went to my office in the basement. 

For context, my boys have basically never had any relationship with their grandparents. My father doesn't like visitors, especially children, and would never do anything to forge a relationship with them. Judy, his second wife, was an unpleasant drunk, and also not great with relationships. She died a few years after my children were born, I think maybe 2016. Susan's parents were unpleasant Chinese people with extreme expectations of their child and grandchildren, lived in New Jersey (on the other side of the United States), barely spoke any English, and rarely visited. 

That morning, John was really upset, basically close to tears. He told me that his mother had put her mother on the phone with him, which would be highly unusual as they had basically no relationship. She had told him things like that I never wanted children and that I would only see him on his birthday. If Susan had said these things to the children, it would have been a violation of principles described in a class that the State of Oregon had forced us to before proceeding with the divorce. 

I flew into a rage. I remember yelling at Susan in front of the kids. One specific phrase was something like, "I'm here to protect these children...from people like you!". On hearing that, Ben seemed to achieve some realization of the situation and responded "Ohhh....", as if he finally understood something about my reason for the divorce.



// incident with Susan's mother

I think Susan had moved out about a year and a half before then, or maybe it was only a year. I was extremely happy when Susan moved out. Other than responsibilities such as parenting and home maintenance, and restrictions such as the inability to travel due to parenting commmitments, I had complete freedom to live how I wanted and raise my boys however I chose. 



After almost four years of stalling by Susan, who absolutely did not want a divorce, the legal process had finally completed in April of that year. 



For me, the most important part of 2022 was that I met Marta.




My brothers came to visit in late September.

