## My Computing Career

I feel like my computing career actually started when I was about five years old, when I somehow acquired a Brother mechanical typewriter. I honestly don't think I could have written as much English or computer code if I hadn't started developing typing skills so early.

If you've never used a mechanical typewriter, some things to consider:

- You have to hit the keys hard enough to cause the letter hammers to hit the paper roller, which is a significant amount of force.
- You can't type too fast or the letter hammers might hit each other and get jammed.
- Correcting errors is somewhere between impractical and impossible, and paper has some cost, so you learn to type with minimal errors.

I have no idea where I got it or what happened to it. I can't easily recognize a picture of it online, but I feel like it might have actually been intended for children. Maybe it was a Young Elite model. I think it had a red pastic case and supported two printed colors using separate red and black vertical strips on the ink ribbon, which unwound from a spool to the empty reel. You had to push a lever or hold a special key down to activate the red part of the ink ribbon. The black ink would generally run out before the red ink, but you could rewind the ribbon.

When I was a little older - maybe eight years old - I could use the electrical typewriter at the office of my dad's landscaping company, which almost felt too sensitive at first. I think this device also had hammers. Note that the layout of the QWERTY keyboard is based on the mechanics of  original typewriter designs, which placed the hammers in alphabetical order without consideration for the user. Later, the DVORAK format emerged for better ergonomics, with key layout based on something like English letter use frequency, but DVORAK keyboards aren't common and I've never learned that layout.

The first computer I ever saw was a Commodore VIC-20, which was a relatively early personal computer with 5K of RAM (Random Access Memory), of which 3.5KB was available for use by programs written in the BASIC language. By today's standards, 3.5KB is almost nothing. If I remember correctly, my fifth grade teacher had borrowed this machine from the older brother Phil of my friend Andy, who I think was still a student in my class. This teacher programmed it to play tic tac toe and bet the class five dollars that nobody could beat it.

One girl played so poorly that she created a condition for which the teacher had never accounted and actually beat the game. The teacher literally went outside and pretended to go through his wallet and come back with several "doll hairs" that he had clearly plucked from his own head.

I don't know why this interested me so much, but I think that winter my brothers and I pooled money that we received from our grandparents at Christmas and bought a Commodore64, which had 64KB of RAM, most of which was available for programming, but still isn't much.

Early personal computers did not always require monitors. The Commodore machines could connect to televisions, so we also bought a used black and white television. Used televisions of that vintage didn't always last long, so we replaced it a few times before my dad eventually gave me an old 13-inch Sony Trinitron, and I could finally visually differentiate all 16 available colors. If I remember crrectly, in BASIC you would "poke" one memory address to set the screen background color and another address to set the character foreground color. We also had paddles, a joystick, and a couple of game cartridges. We also got a tape drive and eventually a disk drive, and we also had some kind of RAM expansion cartridge that allowed for programming larger games. 

My brothers were mostly interested in games, but I read the BASIC programming manual and reference manuals that came with the machine. I never learned machine language on this device, but my brother and I would enter numerical codes to input more complex games than could be programmed in BASIC in available memory. This was a real process - you bought a magazine and had one person read the numbers while the other (me) typed and then checked the a checksum for each line to reduce typos, one of which could destroy the entire project. Each game could take hours for a team to enter, the tape drive was not always reliable, and we were always overwriting the same tapes because we wanted to try new games. Listening to the tapes as audio was something like hearing an old modem connect over a dialup network at very low speed.

Due to its much greater capabilities, I wanted an Amiga (a newer system from Commodore), but could never afford one. In eighth grade, my school had some TRS-80s with monitors, which seemed much more advanced than the Commodore. I think I basically stopped using the Commodore at that point, except possibly to play games on cartridges, and mostly programmed in TRS-80's BASIC.

By the time high school started, I think I had stopped programming. My younger brother got some kind of machine, I think called an Explorer. It was more modern and had a monitor, but I didn't really use it, and never learened to program on it.

At some point, my dad's company got a computer, but I rarely used it, and then mostly to experiment with games. It was some kind of proprietary system with a monochrome monitor. I remember liking the green characters and the font.

At some point in high school I took a typing class over the summer and used one of those classic IBM electric typewriters that has a ball. Probably by the end of that class, I was close to being able to touch type at about 60 words per minute with few errors and without looking at the keyboard much.

I think either for my 17th birthday, just before leaving home for college, or possibly using money I earned that summer or maybe even just as a random gift from my father, I acquired an early word processor, which was basically a typewriter with a black and white liquid crystal screen that was maybe five rows of characters high. I think it stored files on floppy disks, which was obviously quite valuable in college. In fact, I earned money both typing and completely  writing papers for other students, most of whom had no typing proficiency, and at least one of whom had little writing proficiency.

When I got to college in the fall of 1990, I didn't have a computer, and I didn't have any plans to study computer information systems or computer science. In fact, I thought that I was nowhere near smart enough - I had never learned any assembly language and I wasn't very good at math. I don't even know whether I actually used computer labs on campus in my first year. These were the days of IBM PCs and DOS - Windows didn't really get poplare until at least 1992. There weren't even a lot of computers available on campus, and most of them were DEC or even VAX machines.

At some point, one of my friends in the dorms had an IBM PS/2 (Intel x86 architecture) with Compuserve, but to be honest, the Internet wasn't very interesting to me at the time - it seemed to be something for researchers and people interested in communications and consuming media, which weren't exactly my interests. I didn't realize its potential for education until a few years later when I realized my major was worthless and decided to try to get a second major in computer science.

At the same time, I was reading books on C and C++. I don't remember what computer where I first used these softwares, but I used discounts at the school bookstore to buy Borland Turbo C++ (which I think also must have supported C) and eventually Microsoft Macro Assembler (MASM, for x86 assembler). I remember loving the Turbo C++ Integrated Development Environment, which (like MASM) ran in DOS text mode rather than as a Windows application and was amazingly fast. I was impressed with the capabilities of MASM but it was a bit too complicated and architecture-specific; I'm generally more productive in higher level languages and prefer to avoid platform specifics, such as which memory addresses to peek and poke to read and set screen colors. In fact, I never really liked graphics programming. I knew that graphics involves logic, I was more interested in programming applications than graphics.

I also don't remember when I bought my first PC, which had an AMD 486DX40 (an advanced x86 processor with a math coprocessor at 40Mhz), which came with Windows 95. I couldn't afford a sound card, so I actually connected a potentiometer for volume control and installed a sound driver that used the PC speaker. I think I eventually bought a SoundBlaster. I think this machine had a 56K modem. At this time, I felt like I knew a lot about x86 hardware, and I earned my first money in computing by submitting a letter to PC Magazine correcting them for writing that it's OK to switch the powerstrip off to turn off printers (probably from reading a manual or magazine, I had learned InkJet or BubbleJet printers use a power down process to dry the nozzles or something).

After the 486 disappeared, I inherited or acquired access to a couple of portable computers including one of those big boxy IBM 286 things and something else that was like a black and white laptop with a 300 baud modem.

I studied child development and psychology in college. I guess that Explorer must have been an x86 because I eventually brought it to college and used it to work with students in the child development lab. At this point I realized that it's not really appropriate to expose young children to technology very much.

After five years in college, I realized that I didn't have very good career prospects and decided to try to get a second major in Computer Science. I was somehow able to skip some prerequisites, but since I had wasted credits during the first couple of years of college, this still would have taken another year and a half to two years. I remember that I had to apply for an email account and to get access to the DEC and VAX machines. 

On the first day of my first class on Relational Database Management Software (RDBMS) and Structured Query Language (SQL, a programming language used to access such databases), the instructor (Jim, though I also had computing teachers named Chip and Hal) said that he was looking for a student assistant. I approached him after class, and apparently, I was the only person that applied for the job.

For an assignment in that Jim's class, I developed an RDBMS contact management application that I named Tacticom. I got more than 90% credit on that project, but I felt like Jim hadn't looked at it very closely. He had a PhD in programmer productivity and later said that I was in the top 90% of programmers that he had ever seen, which really seemed unrealistic to me.

Jim was sometimes not present for his computer lab classes, so led some of those. I also managed his website on a Windows NT 4 machine and graded papers. I remember him being upset at me once for grading using straight math rather than on a curve, because apparently the test was to hard or confusing or he hadn't covered the material.

Towards the end of that first year, I asked Jim if I could use him as a reference for my summer job search. He said that I shouldn't bother looking for a job, but should just work at a consultancy that he ran on the side. The name of the company was Meta Systems, but there was a dispute over the name, because someone else had already taken it.

This was in 1995 or 1996. My college was small and inexpensive, not known for technology or educational prowess. I remember feeling like I was in some foreign world while walking accross campus with Jim while he was talking on a cellphone, which was a very rare device in that population at the time.

Even though he had given me at least one raise that year, at this point I was probably making less than seven dollars per hour working for him. He offered me a salaried position at the consultancy worth something like $23,000 per year, and then immediately increased the offer to $27,000. I can't even describe how much money this sounded like at the time. It was at least twice what I had been making hourly working for the school.

As it turned out, Meta Systems was doing contract programming work for companies in Silicon Valley, which is one reason that Jim was sometimes on the phone or not present for classtime. There were some political issues within Meta Systems (I think related to a female admin) and both the male system admin DJ and a developer named Rusty were both leaving the company, so I basically had to assume all roles. There was another older employee named Tom in silicon valley, but he had had brain cancer and wasn't getting things done very quickly anymore. That summer, we hired an older guy that had worked at a bank, but he turned out to be not very productive.

The projects for Xilinx were about Electronic Data Interchange (EDI), which you can think of as a sort of precursor to XML and JSON that relied on highly structured simple text formats for exchanging files over Value Added Networks, which were basically secure dialup mailboxes where companies could exhchange purchase orders and other types of documents. Xilinx was in the process of migrating from a product named STX EDI to RMS OmniTrans, but had extended OmniTrans with capabilities write directly to Oracle through RogueWave libraries rather than writing to files for Oracle to import.

I inherited a bunch of mixed C/C++ code from Rusty that had the basics for interacting with Oracle. I don't remember changing this code much until I eventually needed to read from Oracle, and it went into production, which is kindof a miracle for something written by a college student that processes hundreds of millions of dollars worth of transactions yearly.

Apparently, Jim thought I had graduated from college. Meta Systems kindof collapsed and Xilinx made offers to all of its employees. In the fall of 1996, my offer was $42,000 yearly (about $21 per hour) with benefits including stock options. I remember driving from Humboldt to San Jose with Jim at least once, and staying at a couple of pretty nice places in Los Gatos. This was around the time that the .com started happening and there was basically no housing available - I had to sign a lease on a very expensive appartment in a gated commmunity that hadn't even finished construction. I bought a brand new 1996 Honda Civic DX and splurged on the optional air conditioner. Xilinx paid for a moving truck My girlfriend Shannon and I moved to Silicon Valley.

Even though I had to be available by pager 24/7, I absolutely loved this job, which is where I did some of my best programming work ever. I also learned a lot about the silicon manufacturing process as well as Field Programmable Gate Arrays (FPGAs). I was proud when one of my cousins, an actual electrical engineer, told me that he had worked with our chips. I got to work on a Sun workstation that the previous owner had named Minsky. The company standardized on Netscape Navigator for browsing and email. Some people left the company to work at Netscape. I pioneered techniques that reduced code volume and complexity by several factors. I was absolutely the EDI guy for the company, and one of the managers nicknamed me Young Buck. The first system I developed from scratched pulled invoice data from Oracle Accounts Receivable and processed about $300,000,000 dollars worth of X12 810 invoices in its first year with only two errors, both of which it reported, and both of which were caused by invalid invoice data in the upstream system. 

It was also a very lucrative position. In addition to the stock options, Jim gave me great performance reviews and my salary went up to something like $49,000 after the first year (worth about $23/hr). I didn't have any experience or a degree and after I moved out of that first appartment, my cost of living was relatively low. Xilinx had an office near Dublin in Ireland and I joked about being relocated there.

I remember programming a Java applet. If you don't like Java now, you're lucky that you never had to try to get it to do anything significant when it was running in a very unstable virtual machine in a browser window (this was before tabs).

After my second year at Xilinx, I told Jim that I wanted to finish my degree, which is when I learned that he thought that I had already graduated. By this time, the EDI program was entirely dependent on me. Tom and everyone else had left. Xilinx had hired a Chinese woman and an older guy, but they were both basically worthless. I don't think the Chinese woman did anything but smell bad and the guy worked on a single transaction (X12 863, silicon wafer test results) for more than a year and never got it right. When I eventually took that over, it took a few days to get it working, and I think around that time both of them disappeared. 

This all put Jim in a difficult position, so he didn't want me to leave. He offered to relocate the EDI program to Ireland, and I made my first international move. Shannon and I stayed in Dublin for about a month and then rented a little attached house in Lucan, which was about 6 miles from the company facility. The company leased an Audi A4 for me. I was probably making more like $70,000 at this point, paid in US dollars, with very low cost of living in Ireland.

The team in Ireland consisted of me, another developer named PJ who was a great workmate, a young woman whose name I forget, and our manager Simon. I was spoiled rotten and quit again after nine months, which really upset Simon and Jim. I just wasn't enjoying the work the way that I had at first, and maybe felt a bit isolated in Ireland. Looking back, this was really one of the best jobs I ever had.

I went back to college, but found that I was teaching my professors some things, as well as leading projects and classroom discussions that weren't benefiting me much. School was really slow and boring relative to industry. Shannon and I broke up almost as soon as we got back to Humbold and I met Susan (now my ex wife) and dropped out again after the first semester and moved back to the bay area.

I'm pretty embarassed to admit it, but I met Susan online towards the end of 1999, and I felt like we fell in love before we even met in person. This was long before online dating took off and it seemed somehow magical, even though I lived in California and she lived in Colorado. I offered to drive out there for Thanksgiving break but that was probably too quick. She met me in the bay area during Christmas break. She already graduated but still worked at Coloradu University Boulder doing some kind of admin job, and I think she still took language and possibly singing or other classes there.

Susan didn't want to live in Humboldt. I think it was at this time that I looked at a job opportunity with Hunter Douglas (the company that makes window blinds) in Colorado, probably doing something with EDI, but the whole thing looked really boring. I applied at a couple of places in the bay area and somehow ended up with a job as a "Senior Consultant" with a company in Oakland named Endymion. I remmeber they offerred me something like $10K more than I had requested, which I think was about $80K/yr. I kindof felt like something was wrong, but didn't know exactly what it was (I think much of the consulting industry). I later learned that the management was somehow related to that behind the origins of March First, which is kindof a notorious scam from the .com period.

I lived with my grandfather Ben //TODO: link to ben in the Castro area of San Francisco for a couple of months. He was actually a computer technician that had run an early Bulletin Board System (BBS), a sort of public dial-in network from around the time that the Internet emerged. He had old Altairs and Osbornes holding up tabletops in his appartment. He was also making videos. 

My only customer was Tri Valley Growers in San Ramon, which is basically a vegetable cannery - a very different industry and culture than silicon chips. Driving from the city wasn't great, nor was parking in the city. I remember taking some kind of group van from the city to the office, which was nice because it enforced limitted working hours. Eventually I rented a two-bedroom cottage behind the owner's house at the edge of Briones Park in Martinez. This was an awesome situation for me, but Susan had wanted to live in San Francisco, so she was unhappy there and wanted to move. I'll write about that whole situation somewhere else I guess.

I worked on a Gentran EDI system that interfaced with SAP, but after about six months there, I felt like I hadn't gotten anything done - not because of technology, but because some consultancies just take advantage of wasteful clients, and this customer had no idea how to manage their systems or consultancies. We hired another young guy named Rob that was even less experienced than me and came all the way from Visalia (tech talent was pretty hard to find at the time). We both knew that it was a sham; we used to sing "Everything is Beautiful" sarcastically when it was too obvious. He ended up working for a different client that grew and sold plants.

It was probably only about six months before I started looking for work, but I think I didn't actually take my next job until November. Somehow, I moved from EDI to Content Management using Interwoven, which was a set of technologies that helped non-technical people maintain the content of websites. This involved a lot of Perl, which I had started to use at Xilinx (where I also used csh C-Shell, SQL Loader, PL/SQL, C, C++, JavaScript, HTML, Java, and probably a few other things).

The company was named Xerago. I think the salary was significant, but I also remember that they offered me 15,000 stock options, which seemed like a ton. There were also good benefits. The company was in San Diego, so Susan and I rented a two-bedroom house in the Hillcrest, which was awseome. The office was literally walking distance from both home and the airport. They gave me a Toshiba laptop, which I kept when the company went bankrupt a few months later without paying the last few weeks of salary. At that time, I was teaching a class aobut Interwoven, which I kept teaching even after I learned that other employees had come to work one day to find the doors chained shut and that there had never been any contributions to the retirement program.

I actually don't remember the name of the company that I worked for over the next three months - another Interwoven partner. I actually taught Interwoven to some March First employees at one class in San Diego, but by March First of 2001, I think March First was out of business as well. That employer fell apart and I ended up at Enterpulse out of Decatur, Georgia for a few months. For them I taught some Interwoven classes and worked for some Interwoven customers in Europe. I taught one class in something called the Queen's Castle near Denmark, something named something like Ascott in England, an industrial town near France, Milano in Italy, Barcelona in Spain, and I spent a few months at Telenor and De Norske Bank in or near Oslo. My employer would pay for Susan to travel with me, which included her flights, her meals, and our shared hotel rooms. I have a few stories from these days that don't relate to my career, but it was obvious pretty quickly that Susan and I were not going to last. Actually, it was obvious as soon as we got married, or maybe before we got married, in late November of 2000.  

Pretty soon, it was obvious that the .com crazy money period was coming to an end. I asked Susan to sell all my Xilinx stock while I was at work, but she didn't follow my instructions, and it lost a lot of value before I could sell it. 

I got a job at U.S. Bank near Portland, Oregon, which was starting an Interwoven project. It was kindof a bummer to leave San Diego, especially since we let someone pick an apartment in Fairfield rather than living in Portland, which I feel was a much nicer place to live than it is now. One of the things that startled me during my interview there was seeing so many RVs and vehicles with canooes strapped to them on weekdays, like people weren't really just driving back and forth to work every day like they seemed to be in San Diego and definitely were in Silicon Valley.

I think they offer was $84.000 per year and the bank had good benefits, but I didn't get any stock. I was happy with the architecture and implementation of the Interwoven project, but Windows would occasionally bluescreen (Windows hard crash). As it turns out, Interwoven was run by some pretty overly-confident people from Stanford that suggested that the root cause was anything other than Interwoven. The bank had to open support cases with Intel, 3Com, and Microsoft, who eventually suggested that the way to stop the specific bluescreen stop code we were receiving would be to uninstall Interwoven. 

I don't remember whether Interwoven fixed the bug that was causing the crash or if the system ever went into produciton as originally architected, but it did go into production, which was basically a bunch of custom Perl code embedded in Interwoven's proprietary templating language and using their proprietary libraries and command line tools. Anyway, it worked. Microsoft also came to our headquarters to try to pitch an early version of SharePoint as a web CMS, but it was pretty obviously not ready and a bad fit.

I really liked my manager Scott at U.S. Bank, but after about a year, management shifted the Interwoven project under someone else, I think named John. He and I didn't see things the same way and I ended up taking a contract with Sogeti, speficially a contract through Siemens at Intel, I think making $98K/year. For whatever reason, Intel paid me something for three months to learn C# while porting what seemed like hundreds of thousands of lines of very redundant (copied and pasted) Perl to that language. Having experienced the challenges of early Java, I really liked C# from the very beginning, and I wasn't even too unhappy with XML at first.

When the Intel contract ended, I got another contract with shipping logistics company CNF. This was another C# project, so I was able to apply much of what I had learned at Intel. To be honest, I probably even modified some code libraries that I had developed for Intel.

I remember hearing that the managers at CNF argued about who would get window offices, so the company boarded up all the Windows. Corporations can be relatively inhuman.

Susan and I moved into Portland, which was closer to both Intel and CNF. I could walk to work, and there were a few coffee shops along the way, and a few breweries on the way back. Unfortunately, this contract only lasted a few months. I worked with a guy named Rob that would turn up later in my career.

Susan, who had wanted to live in San Diego, was not very happy living in Portland. I took a job at Network Associates (later acquired by McAffee Security) in Silicon Valley and we rented a house in San Jose. I really don't like living in Silicon Valley, but I was trying to compromise her happiness with mine. This was one of my worst jobs ever. I liked the guys I worked with, but I felt like management really lowballed me on the offer, especially as I had to be available to work with American, European, and Asian teams, which basically means all time zones.

I quit after about two months and took a job at John Deere in Moline, Illinois. I don't know why, but I've always liked that particular brand, and I was happy proud to work there. Maybe it was good to get away from Susan every week; our relationship might have failed much faster if we had spent more time together then.

At Deere, I basically ported the .NET libraries I had written to object-oriented Perl, which (along with some feature implementation) took about nine months (Perl really does suck for anything more than a few lines of code, and object orientation doesn't really help with that at all).

By this time it was 2004. The next project I remember was at Stanford Hospitals and Clinics, which wanted to replace their Interwoven implentation with a more modern CMS. At this point, I had worked directly for companies that purchased enterprise software, and for consultancies that implemented software for such companies (including partners of the company selling the software), but I had never worked for a software company.

SHC had no objection to .NET, so I specifically looked for options that used that technology, which is when I first came accross Sitecore. At this time, Sitecore was a small Danish company that had had some success in Scandinavia but was just starting to explore the US market. I emailed the company and said I wasn't interested in "glossies" but was interested in evaluating the product. This is when I met Bjarne, who (along with Eric) was one of the partners founding Sitecore USA. Eric's son Michael was the CEO of Sitecore, and his other son Mads was working to get Sitecore USA started. Bjarne and Eric had alredy achieved significant career success.

Somehow I ended up in a Sitecore training class in the bay area led by Lars, who was one of the founders of Sitecore in Copenhagen. Probably because they assumed it was more approachable or possibly even more relevent at the time, training focussed on XSL (eXtensible Stylesheet Language), which is a declarative language for transforming XML, which was one view into the Sitecore information architeture and data. 

Somehow I got some exposure to the search engine Autonomy while at SHC. I highly recommended Sitecore to SHC, but Perot Systems had come in on a services contract that I heard was worth about $170,000,000, and of course they were going to use Perot software.


